Now, virtual memory is a concept from which we really benefit as programmers.
We do not have to concern ourselves with
the specific hardware configuration of the computer we are working on.
We can simply write a program,
compile it, and be done with it.
However, the virtual memory does not remove
the necessity of cache and reprogramming altogether.
Also knowing about what's beneath
the shiny surface of your current block of program memory is
beneficial in such cases where you want to
squeeze some extra performance out of your programs.
Now a low-hanging fruit would be to relocate
the virtual swap file on your computer to
a faster location such as a high-speed solid state.
One huge advantage of virtual memory is
the contiguous address space you get for each program.
This makes it possible to divide
the addresses in this space into areas for dedicated usage.
You could for example say,
okay this is an area where only global variables live.
Or you could fence a memory range in which
the programmer and which the program code is stored,
where the programmer has no direct access to.
Such a thing exists and it is called Memory Model.
Knowing about the structure and the properties of the different areas of
the C++ memory model is basically what
memory management and also this course is all about.
You now know how memory is structured on a bit level,
you know about different memory types and the properties,
and you've seen what virtual memory does for you.
In the next lesson,
we will dive deeper into the C++ memory model,
and we will also talk about the concepts of heap and of stack,
which you might already have heard about.
But beware, it's going to be a really deep dive.
So see there shortly.